The Joe Rogan experience. You know, there's an, there's a giant,
there's a giant issue in this country that is like, like skirted.
It's like it gets addressed, but then it gets, it gets ignored.
And,
and that is what do they do with all
the communities that have been forever affected by slavery?
Like what about all those, all those. When, when people talk about reparations,
it gets dismissed. Like, it's not you. I didn't do anything. It's not you,
it doesn't have to do with you. You didn't do anything. You never owned a slave.
I never owned a slave. We didn't have anything do with it,
but there's no denying that there's parts of this country that are
forever affected by slavery.
And then afterwards by racist laws, those red line laws. Oh yeah.
Reconstruction. Yes. And Jim Crow, all that. Yeah. Okay.
Never really been addressed, never been addressed in terms of a correction now,
in terms like reparations, you give people money. I don't know if that works.
Like if,
if I thought that by me paying more in taxes and them
giving reparations, we could ease the tension racial tension in this country.
I would be like, okay, that's all you have to do,
but it's not all you have to do. Right?
Because you're still gonna have these communities that are forever affected
until something has been done to correct them.
Like I'm not in favor of giving people who were never slaves money
as reparations,
but I am in favor of giving communities money mm-hmm <affirmative> and figuring
out a way to rebuild them, figuring out a way to make them safer,
better credit schools. Yeah. Everything lunches, community programs,
getting people out off the streets that are involved in gangs and drugs and all
that stuff. Like I've, I've said this a thousand times,
but it bears repeating the best way to have a great country is
if we are a team or if we're a country we're supposed to be a team, right?
We're a community, a giant community of 320 million people.
What's the best way to make it stronger. Well, you have losers.
That's the best way. Well,
what's the likelihood of you becoming a loser.
If you're in an impoverished drugriled crime,
just ravaged area. Well, they're highly,
it's highly likely that you're not gonna succeed in that area unless you
are some person of UN believable character,
an unbelievable will and fortitude. And you're,
you're raised by people who did a phenomenal job, essentially in a war zone.
Right?
If you live it in the south side of Chicago and you look at the murder rate in
the south side of Chicago and you compare it to the murder rate in war zones,
they're pretty similar. Mm-hmm <affirmative> right.
So essentially these people are being asked to do their best and,
and come out of this war zone and pull themselves up by their bootstraps.
Whereas other people around them are not in a war zone. If we're a community,
we're supposed to look at that and go, Hey,
how the do you stop this thing from being a war zone? How do we stop this? Yeah.
How do we, how do we do that with Detroit? How do we do that with Baltimore?
How do we do that with all these impoverished areas that that should be
addressed?
Well, it has to be looked at as our problem. Yes. Not their problem. Yes.
You know, we are all living with the ramifications of inequality. You know,
it's affecting us on a daily basis, whether it's crime or whether, you know,
our gross national product would be much higher.
If more people were educated and more people were proud of their work. And yes.
And so there's, there has to be, there has to be pride, less, less losers,
more pride, more identifying with progress. And you know, I think if you,
if you, if you live in a certain culture in this country, there,
there isn't a pride in six seating, right.
They're J cuz you haven't seen it right.
More opportunity. And this includes poor white cultures.
Like I have a friend who's from Kentucky and he tells me about these people
that live in these coal mining communities, where the coal mining community,
the coal's gone and the, the community is shut down. People are hooked on pills.
And he is like, you have never seen poverty like this. He's like,
you have never seen it where like everyone in the communi is on pills.
Everyone is surviving on like below minimum wage. Everyone's a criminal.
Like it's just, everyone's poor. It's just horrific.
Did you ever see the wild and wonderful whites of West Virginia? No. Holy.
Ho I think it's a Johnny Knoxville documentary. Did he put it together?
It's amazing. It's amazing for all the wrong reasons.
Cuz these are the trashiest white trash people that have ever lived and they're
all on pills. They're all turning tricks and doing crazy and,
and robbing people and shooting people. And it's like, everyone has a story.
That's like, you're like macaulayulcan for, from home alone. Like what? Yeah.
Putting your hands on your ears. Like what the. But those communities exist.
They exist. They, and it's so hard to get out.
It's so hard to break free. Like we as a community,
as a giant 320 million person community should be
concentrating on fixing those spots.
At least as much as we're concentrating on fixing problems in other parts of the
world. Yeah.
I understand the logic behind going to these other parts of the world that are
up and trying to solve these problems before they affect us before they come
back to us. That's the logic. I get it. But internally inside of our country,
we were not doing the same thing.
We're allowing people to become violent criminals by never giving them a chance
mm-hmm <affirmative> but never giving them an outcome or never,
never giving them, uh, possibilities other than what they see around them.
Not giving them any opportunities. And we treat it as if they're supposed to be,
we're all supposed to be.
Even we're all supposed to be on this even game mm-hmm <affirmative> no,
some people got one card and some people got like five ACEs.
It does. Yeah.
There's this documentary they made about uh, a public school in Chicago.
I forget what, uh, Oak park, I think it was in, it was called America is me.
And it was like this 10 part series.
And it showed the experiences of the white kids versus the black kids,
cuz it was an integrated school.
But you were seeing that the black kids were lagging grade-wise graduation rates
and they just went in depth.
And you saw that a lot of the black kids were dealing with single parents.
They were dealing with being evicted,
some of being homeless or just not having the resources like,
you know, the white kids are getting S a T prep classes and you know,
they're getting extra help because they've got a parent that's not working that
can pick them up from school and drive them to a tutor.
And there's just all these things that you're seeing.
One side is getting fostered and the other side is struggling and it's the same
school. So it's not,
it's not as simple as just put good schools in the community,
but there's gotta be, um, mentorship programs and there's gotta be, um,
community outreach programs. Community outreach has gotta be,
they gotta get preschools. Yeah. They gotta get kids in there at a young age.
So the parents can work.
And there's good nutrition that they say that the studies that show preschool
the differences long term of how people come out of there.
But those extra two years is astronomical.
Makes sense. Makes sense. You prep 'em for it early, but it's the thing is like,
this is where a concept like democratic socialism actually makes sense.
It's like people think of democratic socialism where anything where you say the
word socialism, they go, oh, you're gonna take money. Give it to lazy people.
This is the, that's the worst case scenario. Right. But man,
if we're a community, if we're, if we are a community of human beings,
you gotta, we've gotta help the people that aren't doing. Good.
There's gotta be a reason why they're not doing good.
It's not that they're inferior. There's they have a inferior choices.
They have inferior opportunities. They have an inferior situation.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and it's so hard to get the mass of people behind
giving their money to some sort of, uh,
some sort of a program that does take steps to fix this.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> you just don't hear it.
Well, you know, they had the jobs for, you know, FDR and the new deal.
They were able to start. People wanna work.
People don't want to get a welfare check. They want, they,
they wanna feel good about themselves and they, and you wanna be busy all day.
You know, sometimes I'm not, sometimes I don't work for a month, you know,
I'm between writing jobs. Maybe I take some time off from stand up. I get,
I don't feel good about my self terrible. I mean, imagine that times,
year after year and generation after generation and.
For you, it's a choice. Like if you wanted to go on the road any time. Yeah.
But that's not a choice for a lot of people. Right. For a lot of choice,
they're.
Just. And you used to have the, the, the funny thing is like the factory jobs,
you look back on them and you go, those are like really jobs. You know, I,
I grew up in a factory town and it was like, people were not enjoying it.
People were getting drunk and high and just getting through.
And now we're looking we're hearkening back to like that it was like some golden
age of great work. Like, oh no, you know, they were union jobs,
which was great, but let's shoot higher. You know,
let's the factory jobs aren't.
Coming back. Right. But the real question is like some people,
some people don't have aspirations.
So if you took someone who's already gone through the school system and you
know, like, oh, we're gonna get jobs for people. You that's not good enough.
Like you gotta fix the people that are up. Yeah. Like you can't say like,
like an 18 year old person is not a finished product. Right.
A 25 year old person came from a up neighborhood and is got all sorts of mental
problems and probably PTSD. That's not a finished product. Yeah.
You can't say a, we got a job for you. Well, cuz they're in the head. You know,
they've had to deal with their friend getting shot.
They have to deal with their mom being on crack. Like getting 'em a job is not,
not enough. Mm. I don't know what the answer is.
Like obviously we're just two white guys talking. Yeah. Right. We,
we don't have to worry about this. This is not our concern.
But if you wanted to, if you wanted to fix,
if you were a and like say if great fit Simmons became president,
how do you fix that? How do you, how do you even make steps to fix that?
Cause I haven't heard anyone come up with a plan.
Maybe there is one that I haven't heard,
but a plan where it makes sense where there's a long term proposition
to try to take these communities that are just hub ually,
engulfed in crime and violence. Mm.
Just consistently like throughout the sixties and the seventies and, and fix it.
Mm. And turn it around, like at least.
Try. Well, there's a gap. The gap between the rich and the poor is growing.
Ever since the eighties, it's gotten just outta hand, you know, the, the amount,
the top 1% have 50% of the money or something like that.
And it's just,
and everything is set up structurally for that to continue to divide more and
more. Right.
But are they playing a game? Right.
They're playing a game called capitalism and that game they're dominating that
game. And once they get the money,
then they keep the money and they pass that money down to their kids.
They keep the money. How do you change that? I mean,
we could all play that game, right?
Like we could all invest in the stock market.
We could all just really focus entirely on making money or should we not be able
to, like, how do you stop the 1% like these bankers and investment people?
How do you stop that? And how do you stop that in a way where it doesn't see,
seem like you are, you know,
you're changing the rules of the game because some people are just psycho good
at it and completely dedicated to only making money. Well, you're not.
Changing the rules because the, uh, the, the estate tax was there from day one,
the founding fathers wanted there to be a very large estate tax. Right.
They wanted to avoid what happened in Europe,
as these building up of these families that are mm-hmm,
<affirmative> handing down wealth. And so these kids, you know,
so I think we need to go back to right now,
it's like 35% or something like that on wealth,
over 10 million. If you're a couple,
they need to go back to really taking that money back because.
And doing what with it though.
Put it into schools to start with that.
I would love that if there was like a real logic to how that money got spent.
Yes. Right, right. Yeah. That would be the problem.
Because if it just went to a bunch of like,
just, if it just went to a bunch of government programs,
it don't seem to make sense. And that are like poorly structured. Yeah.
And that money gets wasted. That would make me sick.
No, I think it has to be job training programs.
It has to be helping small businesses grow yeah. With, you know, uh,
low cost loans. But you know, they,
the think about these kids that are inheriting a billion dollars,
what are you ever gonna contribute to society? As opposed to,
if you were set up with, you went to a private high school,
you went to a great university, you went to a graduate school.
All of it was paid for, you had nannies, you were given tutors.
You should be able to go out and make a good living. Now. Yes.
You don't need that billion dollars. Right.
And you will feel so much, much better if you make your own money.
Yeah. So there should be enough money left, you know, I'm not,
I'm not saying take away everybody's money when they die,
but I'm saying that there's a grotesque amount of money that needs to be pulled.
Back. That's one way of, of at least putting a chip,
like chip away at it. That's one way, right. That money. Yeah.
It's another way. What's. I mean,
unless you want like cops or police to occupy these areas,
like, how would you ever stop? Like at this point in time,
how would you stop places from being crime written?
It would have to be like a multistep program where you would slowly but surely
implement it and try to slowly but surely chip away at
all these problems. Yeah. It's not something you're gonna fix overnight.
Cause it didn't happen overnight, you know?
Right, right. No, there has to be great leadership and there has to be, but man,
you got.
Eight years. You're you're president, you've got four.
And if you're lucky you get eight. No. I.
Mean, local leadership, you need to, you know, city councilmen, you know,
mayors that, that are really looking at the community and figuring,
and each one's different.
You know, I feel like the, if, if it, if it's that way, unless it's federally,
if it's that way, like you're gonna,
you're dealing with communities that don't have as much money already. Yeah.
You know,
because just by virtue of the fact they're crime written and that this is and
poverty stricken, these are communities that you don't have any money. Yeah.
Low tax base. Let's go back to talking about farts, YESS me out.